Characteristics of Big Data- Volume.
Volume is the big data dimension that
relates to the sheer size of big data.
This volume can come from
large datasets being shared or
many small data pieces and
events being collected over time.
Every minute 204 million emails are sent,
200,000 photos are uploaded, and 1.8
million likes are generated on Facebook.
On YouTube, 1.3 million videos are viewed
and 72 hours of video are uploaded.
But how much data are we talking about?
The size and the scale of storage for
big data can be massive.
You heard me say words that
start with peta, exa and
yotta, to define size, but
what does all that really mean?
For comparison, 100 megabytes will
hold a couple of encyclopedias.
A DVD is around 5 GBs, and
1 TB would hold around 300
hours of good quality video.
A data-oriented business currently
collects data in the order of terabytes,
but petabytes are becoming more
common to our daily lives.
CERN's large hadron collider
generates 15 petabytes a year.
According to predictions by an IDC report
sponsored by a big data company called
EMC, digital data, will grow by
a factor of 44 until the year 2020.
This is a growth from 0.8 zetabytes,
In 2009 to 35.2 zettabytes in 2020.
A zettabyte is 1 trillion gigabytes,
that's 10 to the power of 21.
The effects of it will be huge!
Think of all the time, cost,
energy that will be used to store and
make sense of such an amount of data.
The next era will be yottabytes.
Ten to the power of 24 and
brontobytes, ten to the power of 27.
Which is really hard to imagine for
most of us at this time.
This is also what we call data
at an astronomical scale.
The choice of putting the Milky Way Galaxy
in the middle of the circle
is not just for aesthetics.
This is what we would see if
we were to scale up 10 to
the 21 times into the universe.
Cool, isn't it?
Please refer to the reading
in this module called,
what does astronomical scale mean,
for a nice video on the powers of ten.
All of these point to an exponential
growth in data volume and storage.
What is the relevance of
this much data in our world?
Remember the planes collecting big data?
Our hope, as passengers,
is data means better flight safety.
The idea is to understand that businesses
and organizations are collecting and
leveraging large volumes of data
to improve their end products,
whether it is safety, reliability,
healthcare, or governance.
In general, in business the goal
is to turn this much data into
some form of business advantage.
The question is how do we
utilize larger volumes of data
to improve our end product's quality?
Despite a number of
challenges related to it.
There are a number of challenges related
to the massive volumes of big data.
The most obvious one is of course storage.
As the size of the data increases so
does the amount of storage space
required to store that data efficiently.
However, we also need to be able
to retrieve that large amount of
data fast enough, and
move it to processing units in a timely
fashion to get results when we need them.
This brings additional challenges
such as networking, bandwidth,
cost of storing data.
In-house versus cloud storage and
things like that.
Additional challenges arise during
processing of such large data.
Most existing analytical methods
won't scale to such sums of
data in terms of memory,
processing, or IO needs.
This means their performance will drop.
You might be able to get good performance
for data from hundreds of customers.
But how about scaling your solution
to 1,000 or 10,000 customers?
As the volume increases performance and
cost start becoming a challenge.
Businesses need a holistic
strategy to handle processing of
large scale data to their benefit
in the most cost effective manner.
Evaluating the options across
the dimensions mentioned here,
is the first step when it comes to
continuously increasing data size.
We will revisit this topic
later on in this course.
As a summary volume is the dimension
of big data related to its size and
its exponential growth.
The challenges with working with volumes
of big data include cost, scalability,
and performance related to their storage,
access, and processing.